The archetypes of the unconscious can be shown empirically to be the
equivalents of religious dogmas. In the hermeneutic language of the Fathers
the Church possesses a rich store of analogies with the individual and
spontaneous products to be found in psychology. What the unconscious
expresses is far from being merely arbitrary or opinionated; it is something
that happens to be “just-so,” as is the case with every other natural being. It
stands to reason that the expressions of the unconscious are natural and not
formulated dogmatically; they are exactly like the patristic allegories which
draw the whole of nature into the orbit of their amplifications. If these present
us with some astonishing allegoriae Christi, we find much the same sort of
thing in the psychology of the unconscious. The only difference is that the
patristic allegory ad Christum spectat—refers to Christ—whereas the psychic
archetype is simply itself and can therefore be interpreted according to time,
place, and milieu. In the West the archetype is filled out with the dogmatic
figure of Christ; in the East, with Purusha, the Atman, Hiranyagarbha, the
Buddha, and so on. The religious point of view, understandably enough, puts
the accent on the imprinter, whereas scientific psychology emphasizes the
typos, the imprint—the only thing it can understand. The religious point of
view understands the imprint as the working of an imprinter; the scientific
point of view understands it as the symbol of an unknown and
incomprehensible content. Since the typos is less definite and more variegated
than any of the figures postulated by religion, psychology is compelled by its
empirical material to express the typos by means of a terminology not bound
by time, place, or milieu. If, for example, the typos agreed in every detail with
the dogmatic figure of Christ, and if it contained no determinant that went
beyond that figure, we would be bound to regard the typos as at least a faithful
copy of the dogmatic figure, and to name it accordingly. The typos would then
coincide with Christ. But as experience shows, this is not the case, seeing that
the unconscious, like the allegories employed by the Church Fathers, produces
countless other determinants that are not explicitly contained in the dogmatic
formula; that is to say, non-Christian figures such as those mentioned above
are included in the typos. But neither do these figures comply with the
indeterminate nature of the archetype. It is altogether inconceivable that there
could be any definite figure capable of expressing archetypal indefiniteness.
For this reason I have found myself obliged to give the corresponding
archetype the psychological name of the “self”—a term on the one hand
definite enough to convey the essence of human wholeness and on the other
hand indefinite enough to express the indescribable and indeterminable nature
of this wholeness. The paradoxical qualities of the term are a reflection of the
fact that wholeness consists partly of the conscious man and partly of the
unconscious man. But we cannot define the latter or indicate his boundaries.
Hence in its scientific usage the term “self” refers neither to Christ nor to the
Buddha but to the totality of the figures that are its equivalent, and each of
these figures is a symbol of the self. This mode of expression is an intellectual
necessity in scientific psychology and in no sense denotes a transcendental
prejudice. On the contrary, as we have said before, this objective attitude
enables one man to decide in favour of the determinant Christ, another in
favour of the Buddha, and so on. Those who are irritated by this objectivity
should reflect that science is quite impossible without it. Consequently by
denying psychology the right to objectivity they are making an untimely
attempt to extinguish the life-light of a science. Even if such a preposterous
attempt were to succeed, it would only widen the already catastrophic gulf
between the secular mind on the one hand and Church and religion on the
other.

It is quite understandable for a science to concentrate more or less
exclusively on its subject—indeed, that is its absolute raison d’être. Since the
concept of the self is of central interest in psychology, the latter naturally
thinks along lines diametrically opposed to theology: for psychology the
religious figures point to the self, whereas for theology the self points to its—
theology’s—own central figure. In other words, theology might possibly take
the psychological self as an allegory of Christ. This opposition is, no doubt,
very irritating, but unfortunately inevitable, unless psychology is to be denied
the right to exist at all. I therefore plead for tolerance. Nor is this very hard for
psychology since as a science it makes no totalitarian claims.

The Christ-symbol is of the greatest importance for psychology in so far as it
is perhaps the most highly developed and differentiated symbol of the self,
apart from the figure of the Buddha. We can see this from the scope and
substance of all the pronouncements that have been made about Christ: they
agree with the psychological phenomenology of the self in unusually high
degree, although they do not include all aspects of this archetype. The almost
limitless range of the self might be deemed a disadvantage as compared with
the definiteness of a religious figure, but it is by no means the task of science
to pass value judgments. Not only is the self indefinite but—paradoxically
enough—it also includes the quality of definiteness and even of uniqueness.
This is probably one of the reasons why precisely those religions founded by
historical personages have become world religions, such as Christianity,
Buddhism, and Islam. The inclusion in a religion of a unique human
personality—especially when conjoined to an indeterminable divine nature—
is consistent with the absolute individuality of the self, which combines
uniqueness with eternity and the individual with the universal. The self is a
union of opposites par excellence, and this is where it differs essentially from
the Christ-symbol. The androgyny of Christ is the utmost concession the
Church has made to the problem of opposites. The opposition between light
and good on the one hand and darkness and evil on the other is left in a state
of open conflict, since Christ simply represents good, and his counterpart the
devil, evil. This opposition is the real world problem, which at present is still
unsolved. The self, however, is absolutely paradoxical in that it represents in
every respect thesis and antithesis, and at the same time synthesis.
(Psychological proofs of this assertion abound, though it is impossible for me
to quote them here in extenso. I would refer the knowledgeable reader to the
symbolism of the mandala.)

Once the exploration of the unconscious has led the conscious mind to an
experience of the archetype, the individual is confronted with the abysmal
contradictions of human nature, and this confrontation in turn leads to the
possibility of a direct experience of light and darkness, of Christ and the devil.
For better or worse there is only a bare possibility of this, and not a guarantee;
for experiences of this kind cannot of necessity be induced by any human
means. There are factors to be considered which are not under our control.
Experience of the opposites has nothing whatever to do with intellectual
insight or with empathy. It is more what we would call fate. Such an
experience can convince one person of the truth of Christ, another of the truth
of the Buddha, to the exclusion of all other evidence.