The Bodhisattva stood on a large lotus and surveyed the four directions with his lion’s gaze, the gaze of a great being. At that time the Bodhisattva, with unhindered
higher knowledge, which he manifested due to the ripening of previous roots of virtue, saw the entire great trichiliocosm. He saw all the cities, towns, [F.46.a] estates,
kingdoms, royal cities, and lands, as well as all gods and humans. He also perfectly
knew the minds of all sentient beings and carefully surveyed them, looking to see if
there was anyone similar to himself in terms of virtuous conduct, discipline, meditative absorption, or knowledge. However, in the entire great trichiliocosm, the Bodhisattva did not see anyone like himself.
At that point the Bodhisattva felt a lion-like fearlessness, free from anxiety or apprehension. Without any hesitation or wavering, he reminded himself of his good
motivations. Because he had examined the minds of all sentient beings, he now knew
their thoughts. Unsupported, he took seven steps toward the east and declared, “I will
be the cause of all virtuous practices.”
Wherever the Bodhisattva took a step, a lotus sprouted forth. He then took seven
steps toward the south and said, “I am worthy of the offerings of gods and humans.”
Next he took seven steps toward the west and, pausing on the seventh step, he proclaimed these satisfying words in lion-like fashion: “I am the Supreme Being [85] on
this earth. This is my last birth, where I shall uproot birth, old age, sickness, and 
death!” He then took seven steps toward the north and said, “I will be supreme
among all sentient beings!” Next he took seven steps downhill, saying, “I will subjugate Māra and his army! I will cause great rain clouds of the Dharma to shower down
on all hell beings, extinguishing the fires of hell and filling the beings there with
happiness.” Finally he took seven steps uphill, lifted his gaze, and said, “All sentient
beings will look up to me.” [F.46.b]
As the Bodhisattva spoke in this way, his words were immediately heard throughout the entire great trichiliocosm. Such was the nature of the foreknowledge that
sprang from the ripening of the Bodhisattva’s previous actions. Whenever a bodhisattva takes birth into his final existence, and as he awakens to perfect and complete
buddhahood, various miracles unfold.
Monks, at that time all beings were so delighted that the hairs on their bodies shivered. There was also a terrifying quaking of the earth, which caused the hairs on their
bodies to stand on end. The cymbals and musical instruments of gods and humans
sounded without being played by anyone. At that time all the trees in the great
trichiliocosm—whether in season or not—blossomed and bore fruit. From the expanse of pure space, the sound of thunder rang out, and from the cloudless sky, a fine
mist of rain showered down ever so gently, mixed with divinely colored flowers,
cloths, ornaments, and powdered incense. Deliciously scented breezes blew, delightful and cooling. In all directions there was no darkness, dust, smoke, or mist to be
seen, and everything appeared bright and beautiful.
Also, from the empty space above, the great melodious and profound sounds of the
realm of Brahmā were heard. All the light of the sun, the moon, Brahmā, Śakra, and
the guardians of the world [86] was eclipsed by an otherworldly light of a hundred
thousand colors, which filled the entire great trichiliocosm and brought pleasure and
happiness, both physical and mental, to everyone that it touched. At the very moment
when the Bodhisattva was born, all beings became filled with bliss. All types of attachment, anger, delusion, pride, [F.47.a] dislike, dejection, fear, greed, jealousy, and
stinginess subsided, and everyone abandoned all forms of unwholesome conduct.
The illnesses of the sick were cured. The hungry and the thirsty were relieved of
their hunger and thirst. The drunk and intoxicated were freed from their intoxication.
The mad had their sanity restored. The blind could see. The deaf could hear. The
crippled had their capacities restored. The destitute gained wealth. The imprisoned
were freed. All ailments and sufferings of those in the hell realms, starting with the
Hell of Ultimate Torment, ceased at that moment. The suffering of those born into
the animal realm, such as the fear of being eaten by one another, was also pacified.
Likewise the sufferings experienced by beings in the realm of the lord of death, such
as hunger and thirst, were also pacified.
The newborn Bodhisattva had already practiced good conduct for countless trillions of eons, and he possessed great diligence and strength. As such, when he took
his first seven steps, he had already attained the state of reality. Therefore all the
buddhas, the blessed ones, in all the realms in the ten directions blessed the earth at
that spot of vajra nature so that it would not be destroyed by his steps. Monks, such
was the awesome strength of the newborn Bodhisattva’s first seven steps.